Obama Ignores North Korea in Address to Congress
FILE - North Korean leader Kim Jong Un gestures as he watches a military parade in Pyongyang, North Korea.
SEOUL
Of the many foreign policy challenges confronting the United States, North Korea's recent nuclear test was not among those mentioned in President Barack Obama's State of the Union address Tuesday.
U.S. foreign policys top priority, he said, must be dealing with threats from failing states in the Middle East, Afghanistan and Pakistan, and the terror networks that have grown in that part of the world.
North Korea analyst Victor Cha with the Washington D.C.-based Center for Strategic and International Studies said dealing with the growing nuclear threat from North Korea remains an issue of secondary interest.
He said he does not expect Obama to change the current containment policy of strategic patience, nor does he expect any of the major presidential candidates to make North Korea a major issue in the campaign.
Whoever comes into office about a year from now is going to be dealing with an exponentially worse problem than we are dealing with today, said Cha.
Bone numbing pain
Tensions on the Korean peninsula, however, continued to intensify this week, at least rhetorically.
South Korean President Park Geun-hye publicly denounced North Korea Wednesday for conducting its fourth nuclear test, defended her countrys limited response and urged China to support strong international sanctions.
At a news conference in Seoul, Park said South Korea is cooperating closely with the United States and other allies to develop new United Nations sanctions that will make North Korea feel bone-numbing pain.
However she recognized that without support from China, which provides key economic support to North Korea, it would be difficult to effectively pressure the Kim Jong Un government to halt its nuclear program.
I believe that China will play a more active role as it has shown a clear willingness.
We are having discussions with the envoys of the six-party talks to develop effective sanctions, Park said.
In 2009, Pyongyang withdrew from the six party talks with Washington, Seoul, Tokyo, Beijing and Moscow to halt the Norths nuclear program in exchange for economic assistance and security guarantees.
On Tuesday, North Korean leader Kim Jong Un threatened to detonate a more powerful H-bomb in the future and called for an expansion of the size and power of his country's nuclear arsenal, the state television agency KCNA reported.